Welcome to this course on the practical
aspects of deep learning.
Perhaps now you've learned how
to implement a neural network.
In this week you'll learn
the practical aspects of how to make
your neural network work well.
Ranging from things like hyperparameter
tuning to how to set up your data,
to how to make sure your optimization
algorithm runs quickly so
that you get your learning algorithm
to learn in a reasonable time.
In this first week we'll first talk about
the cellular machine learning problem,
then we'll talk about randomization.
And we'll talk about some tricks for
making sure your neural network
implementation is correct.
With that, let's get started.
Making good choices in how you set
up your training, development, and
test sets can make a huge
difference in helping you quickly
find a good high
performance neural network.
When training a neural network you
have to make a lot of decisions,
such as how many layers will
your neural network have?
And how many hidden units do
you want each layer to have?
And what's the learning rates?
And what are the activation functions you
want to use for the different layers?
When you're starting on a new application,
it's almost impossible to correctly
guess the right values for
all of these, and for other hyperparameter
choices, on your first attempt.
So in practice applied machine learning
is a highly iterative process,
in which you often start with an idea,
such as you want to build a neural
network of a certain number of layers,
certain number of hidden units,
maybe on certain data sets and so on.
And then you just have to code it up and
try it by running your code.
You run and experiment and
you get back a result that tells you
how well this particular network, or
this particular configuration works.
And based on the outcome,
you might then refine your ideas and
change your choices and
maybe keep iterating in order to try to
find a better and a better neural network.
Today, deep learning has found
great success in a lot of areas.
Ranging from natural language
processing to computer vision to
speech recognition to a lot of
applications on also structured data.
And structured data includes everything
from advertisements to web search,
which isn't just Internet search engines
it's also, for example, shopping websites.
Already any websites that wants
deliver great search results when
you enter terms into a search bar.
To computer security, to logistics,
such as figuring out where
to send drivers to pick up and
drop off things, to many more.
So what I'm seeing is that sometimes
a researcher with a lot of experience
in NLP might try to do
something in computer vision.
Or maybe a researcher with a lot of
experience in speech recognition might
jump in and
try to do something on advertising.
Or someone from security might want to
jump in and do something on logistics.
And what I've seen is that
intuitions from one domain or
from one application area often do not
transfer to other application areas.
And the best choices may depend
on the amount of data you have,
the number of input features you have
through your computer configuration and
whether you're training on GPUs or CPUs.
And if so, exactly what configuration of
GPUs and CPUs, and many other things.
So for a lot of applications I
think it's almost impossible.
Even very experienced deep learning people
find it almost impossible to correctly
guess the best choice of
hyperparameters the very first time.
And so today,
applied deep learning is a very iterative
process where you just have to
go around this cycle many times
to hopefully find a good choice
of network for your application.
So one of the things that determine
how quickly you can make progress is
how efficiently you can
go around this cycle.
And setting up your data sets well in
terms of your train, development and
test sets can make you much
more efficient at that.
So if this is your training data,
let's draw that as a big box.
Then traditionally you might
take all the data you have and
carve off some portion of
it to be your training set.
Some portion of it to be your
hold-out cross validation set,
and this is sometimes also
called the development set.
And for brevity I'm just going to
call this the dev set, but
all of these terms mean
roughly the same thing.
And then you might carve out some final
portion of it to be your test set.
And so the workflow is that you keep on
training algorithms on your training sets.
And use your dev set or your hold-out
cross validation set to see which
of many different models
performs best on your dev set.
And then after having
done this long enough,
when you have a final model
that you want to evaluate,
you can take the best model you have
found and evaluate it on your test set.
In order to get an unbiased estimate
of how well your algorithm is doing.
So in the previous era of machine
learning, it was common practice
to take all your data and
split it according to maybe a 70/30% in
terms of a people often talk about
the 70/30 train test splits.
If you don't have an explicit dev set or
maybe a 60/20/20%
split in terms of 60% train,
20% dev and 20% test.
And several years ago this was
widely considered best practice
in machine learning.
If you have maybe 100 examples in total,
maybe 1000 examples in total,
maybe after 10,000 examples.
These sorts of ratios were perfectly
reasonable rules of thumb.
But in the modern big data era,
where, for example,
you might have a million examples in
total, then the trend is that your dev and
test sets have been becoming a much
smaller percentage of the total.
Because remember, the goal of the dev set
or the development set is that you're
going to test different algorithms on it
and see which algorithm works better.
So the dev set just needs
to be big enough for
you to evaluate, say,
two different algorithm choices or
ten different algorithm choices and
quickly decide which one is doing better.
And you might not need a whole
20% of your data for that.
So, for example, if you have a million
training examples you might decide that
just having 10,000 examples in
your dev set is more than enough
to evaluate which one or
two algorithms does better.
And in a similar vein, the main goal
of your test set is, given your final
classifier, to give you a pretty confident
estimate of how well it's doing.
And again, if you have a million examples
maybe you might decide that 10,000
examples is more than enough in order
to evaluate a single classifier and
give you a good estimate
of how well it's doing.
So in this example where you
have a million examples,
if you need just 10,000 for
your dev and 10,000 for your test,
your ratio will be more like this
10,000 is 1% of 1 million so
you'll have 98% train, 1% dev, 1% test.
And I've also seen applications where,
if you have even more than a million
examples, you might end up
with 99.5% train and
0.25% dev, 0.25% test.
Or maybe a 0.4% dev, 0.1% test.
So just to recap, when setting up
your machine learning problem,
I'll often set it up into a train,
dev and test sets, and
if you have a relatively small dataset,
these traditional ratios might be okay.
But if you have a much larger data set,
it's also fine to set your dev and
test sets to be much smaller than
your 20% or even 10% of your data.
We'll give more specific
guidelines on the sizes of dev and
test sets later in this specialization.
One other trend we're seeing in the era
of modern deep learning is that more and
more people train on mismatched train and
test distributions.
Let's say you're building an app that
lets users upload a lot of pictures and
your goal is to find pictures of
cats in order to show your users.
Maybe all your users are cat lovers.
Maybe your training set comes from cat
pictures downloaded off the Internet, but
your dev and test sets might comprise
cat pictures from users using our app.
So maybe your training set has a lot of
pictures crawled off the Internet but
the dev and
test sets are pictures uploaded by users.
Turns out a lot of webpages have very
high resolution, very professional,
very nicely framed pictures of cats.
But maybe your users
are uploading blurrier,
lower res images just taken with a cell
phone camera in a more casual condition.
And so these two distributions
of data may be different.
The rule of thumb I'd encourage
you to follow in this case is to
make sure that the dev and
test sets come from the same distribution.
We'll say more about this
particular guideline as well, but
because you will be using the dev set to
evaluate a lot of different models and
trying really hard to improve
performance on the dev set.
It's nice if your dev set comes from
the same distribution as your test set.
But because deep learning algorithms have
such a huge hunger for training data,
one trend I'm seeing is that you might
use all sorts of creative tactics,
such as crawling webpages,
in order to acquire a much bigger training
set than you would otherwise have.
Even if part of the cost of that
is then that your training set
data might not come from the same
distribution as your dev and test sets.
But you find that so
long as you follow this rule of thumb,
that progress in your machine
learning algorithm will be faster.
And I'll give a more
detailed explanation for
this particular rule of thumb later
in the specialization as well.
Finally, it might be okay
to not have a test set.
Remember the goal of the test set
is to give you a unbiased estimate
of the performance of your final network,
of the network that you selected.
But if you don't need
that unbiased estimate,
then it might be okay
to not have a test set.
So what you do, if you have only
a dev set but not a test set,
is you train on the training set and then
you try different model architectures.
Evaluate them on the dev set,
and then use that to iterate and
try to get to a good model.
Because you've fit your
data to the dev set,
this no longer gives you an unbiased
estimate of performance.
But if you don't need one,
that might be perfectly fine.
In the machine learning world,
when you have just a train and
a dev set but no separate test set.
Most people will call
this a training set and
they will call the dev set the test set.
But what they actually end up doing is
using the test set as a hold-out cross
validation set.
Which maybe isn't completely
a great use of terminology,
because they're then
overfitting to the test set.
So when the team tells you that they
have only a train and a test set,
I would just be cautious and think,
do they really have a train dev set?
Because they're overfitting
to the test set.
Culturally, it might be difficult to
change some of these team's terminology
and get them to call it a trained dev
set rather than a trained test set.
Even though I think calling it a train and
development set would be
more correct terminology.
And this is actually okay practice
if you don't need a completely
unbiased estimate of
the performance of your algorithm.
So having set up a train dev and test set
will allow you to integrate more quickly.
It will also allow you to more efficiently
measure the bias and variance of your
algorithm so you can more efficiently
select ways to improve your algorithm.
Let's start to talk about
that in the next video.